hi I'm Mitch Gallagher welcome to
Sweetwater's iOS update this time out
for channel doc that allows you to
record audio signals into any da W app
running inside your iPad let's get
started today we're looking at the
Alesis IO mix this is a four channel
recorder dock that allows you to connect
microphones guitars keyboards any type
of input signals and bring them into
your da W app running inside your iPad
you might be using cubasis you might use
aria you might use another one but any
of those apps will be able to see the
inputs coming from the i/o mix and allow
you to treat this basically as a
standalone recorder the i/o mix is
compatible with any full-size iPad
including the iPad air loading it up is
very easy you simply open up the door on
the side and there's a connector here
you can see that we can pop that off in
this case I've got a 30 pin adaptor on
there
there also is a lightning adapter if
you're using a newer iPad so we connect
that up and basically we just slide our
iPad into place once the iPad is in
place connect the connector onto the end
of the iPad and we're good to go
not only does the connector provide all
the audio connections for us it also
powers our iPad while it's inside the
i/o mix simply turn on the i/o mix turn
on your iPad and you're ready to go
let's begin by looking at the back panel
first of all on the far right as you're
facing the back panel we have the power
switch as well as the power connection
next to that we have our four channel
inputs now these are combi jacks that
will accept either XLR or quarter-inch
connections you can connect a guitar
level signal to input number one and
there's a switch for converting that
from micro line level down to guitar
level each channel has its own gain
control and each channel also has its
own 75 Hertz high-pass filter so you can
take out any booming or thumping or low
frequency noise Rumble that you don't
want to have in your tracks finally on
the back panel we have our stereo
outputs for feeding into your monitors
now we'll move to the front panel of the
i/o a mix this is where you'll find the
controls that you need for making your
tracks each track has a fader for
setting its input level as you're
recording we also have bass and treble
controls you can adjust the highs and
the lows as you're tracking and we have
a pan control for setting things up in
the stereo field in the blue section
next to the input channel is where we
route these channels
out to our monitoring environment so for
example we have a level control that
sets how much of the four input channels
are being sent on to the master output
into the headphones we've also got a
four channel mix button we've got a
limiter button that prevents distortion
and then we can route that mix to our
headphones if we like the master section
has a headphone volume control and also
has a master volume control that sets
the level that's coming out of our left
and right stereo outputs finally we have
a direct button which engages direct
monitoring that would be latency free so
we don't have any delays we're
monitoring our tracks when we're
recording and we have a mono switch for
setting the stereo output to mono
wrapping things up is a headphone
connection on the bottom of the front
panel let's take a look at how you might
record tracks using the i/o mix in order
to get a drum track in here what I've
done is loaded up the dm1 app which is a
drum machine app and it's running here
inside my iPad I've got the audio from
dm1 being routed into the track in cue
basis so we can click over to the dm1
drum machine and you can see that I've
got a drum pattern programmed in here we
can click back to cue basis so we should
be all set all I have to do is click
record in cue basis the audio from the
drum machine will be piped right into
our track here as you can see that our
drum part has been recorded as audio
into cue basis and now we have that
track to play along with as we add our
other tracks on top of it so for our
next track we'll record a guitar part on
top of this to do that I'm going to
connect the guitar into the input on the
back set it to the guitar level setting
and then we'll play our part we'll
create an audio track for our guitar to
feed into by clicking the plus sign here
now we'll need to make sure the input
for this track is assigned to input
number one which is where our guitar is
connected so we'll click the routing
switch and we are indeed set to number
one so we should be good to go once we
have our input routed we can set up our
levels so that we can play along with
the track now there are a couple ways
you can do this you could monitor right
through cubasis or whatever da W that
you're using but the i/o mix actually
provides you with a way to have latency
free monitoring so there's no delay as
you're listening to the tracks playback
you access that by pushing the direct
button here on the front panel we have
control over our guitar volume with the
fader here and there's an input gain
control back by the input on the back
panel
to capture other tracks we can connect
up to four microphones simultaneously
and record them to individual tracks to
record our next track we'll plug a
microphone into the i/o mix I've got a
shure sm57 we're going into input number
three and I'll turn the gain up here to
a healthy level then we can bring our
volume up using the fader on the front
panel now we have our EQ controls so we
could boost the highs of the lows if we
wanted to and we can also engage the 75
Hertz high-pass filter if there's any
problem with bhumi Azure with thumping
we've got a track created in queue basis
I've assigned it to input number three
and now we can record
so this is how easy it is to record
microphone signals straight into the i/o
mix and whatever da W you might be using
now we can continue layering more tracks
on top of this we could bring in
multiple instruments at the same time if
we have two or three background singers
we could give them each a microphone
bring them in separately so we have a
lot of flexibility using that input
scheme to bring up to four tracks at a
time into our session and do a lot of
recording the Alesis IO mix converts
your iPad into a standalone multitrack
recorder we've got four inputs so we can
bring in a variety of signals up to four
simultaneously we can record those two
tracks and whatever da W app you were
using the sound quality is great the
preamps work well with your line level
signals mic signals or even guitar level
signals and we have the option for
latency free monitoring using the
controls on the front panel as well it
really is a great solution for capturing
your tracks getting demo ideas down or
even working on finished productions I
hope you enjoyed this installment of
Sweetwater's iOS update be sure to tune
in next time we'll have more apps more
Hardware accessories and more tips on
making music with your iOS devices I'm
midge Gallagher
you